#S3
S3 is a safe place to store your files.  
It's Object-based storage.  
The data is spread across multiple devices and facilities.  

* Files can be from 0 Bytes to 5 TB.
* There is unlimited storage.
* Files are stored in Buckets
* S3 is a universal namespace. That is, names must be unique globally.
* When you upload a file to S3, you will receive a HTTP 200 code if the upload was successful.

# Data Consistency Model for S3
* Read after Write consistency for PUTS of new Objects
* Eventual Consistency for overwrite PUTS and DELETES (can take some time to propogate)

# S3 Is a Simple Key-value Store
* S3 is Object based. Objects consist of the following:
    * Key (The name of the object)
    * Value (Th data)
    * Version ID
    * Metadata (data about the data you're storing)
    * Subresources:
        * Access Control Lists
        * Torrent

# S3 - The Basics
* Built for 99.99% availability for the S3 platform.
* Amazon Guarantee 99.9% availability
* Amazon guarantees 99.99999999999% durability for S3 information. (11 x 9s)
* Tiered Storage Available
* Versioning
* Encryption
* Secure your data using Access Control Lists and Bucket Policies

# S3 Storage Tiers/Classes
* S3 Standard: 99.99% availability, 99.99999999999% durability, stored redundantly across multiple devices in multiple facilities, and is designed to sustain the loss of 2 facilities concurrently.
* S3 - IA: Infrequently Accessed: For data that is access less frequently, but requires rapid access when needed. Lower fee than S3, but you are charged a retrieval fee.
* S3 One Zone - IA: want a lower-cost option for infrequently accessed data, but do not require the multiple Availability Zone data resilience.
* Glacier: Very cheap, but used for archival only. Expedited, Standard, or Bulk. A standard retrieval time takes 3-5 hours.

# S3 Charges
* Charged for:
    * Storage
    * Number of Requests
    * Storage Management Pricing
    * Data transfer pricing
    * Transfer Acceleration

# What is S3 Transfer Acceleration?
Amazon S3 Transfer Acceleration enables fast, easy, and secure transfers of files over long distances between your end users and an S3 bucket.

# Exam Tips
* Remember that S3 is Object-based, allows you to upload files.
* Files can be from 0 Bytes to 5 TB
* There is unlimited storage.
* Files are stored in Buckets
* S3 is a universal namespace. The names must be unique globally
* Read after Write consistency for PUTS of new Objects
* Eventual Consistency for overwrite PUTS and DELETES can take some time to propogate.
* S3 Storage Classes/Tiers:
    * S3 (durable, immediately available)
    * S3 - IA: Infrequently Accessed
    * S3 One Zone: - IA: Even cheaper but one availability zone
    * Glacier - Wait 3-5 hours
* Remember the core fundamentals of an S3 object:
    * Key (name)
    * Value (data)
    * Version ID
    * Metadata
    * Subresources:
        * ACLs
        * Torrent
* Object storage only (for files).
* Successful upload return a HTTP 200 code
* Read the S3 FAQs before taking the exam. It comes up A LOT!
* Buckets are a universal name space
* Upload an object to S3 recieve a HTTP 200 Code
* S3, S# - IA, S3 Reduced Redundancy Storage
* Encryption
    * Client Side Encryption
    * Server Side Encryption
        * Server side encryption with Amazon S3 managed Keys
        * Server side encryption with KMS
        * Server side encryption with Customer Provided Keys
* Control access to buckets using either a bucket ACL or using Bucket Policies
* By default buckets are private and all objects stored inside them are private
* S3 website format - bucket name . s3-website - region . amazonaws.com
* you can use bucket policies to make entire s3 buckets public.
* You can use S3 to host STATIC websites.
* S3 scales automatically to meet your demand. Many enterprises will put static websites on S3 when they think there is going to be a large number of requests.