## EC2
What is EC2 : Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud is a web service that provides resizable compute capacity in the cloud.

Amazon EC2 reduces the time required to obtain and boot new server instances to minutes, allowing you to quickly scale capacity, both up and down, as your computing requirements change.

# EC2 Options
* On Demand - allows you to pay a fixed rate by the hour (or by the second) with no commitment.
* Reserved - provides you with a capacity reservation, and offer a significant discount on the hourly charge for an instance. 1 Year or 3 Year Terms.
* Spot - enables you to bid whatever price you want for instance capacity, providing for even greater savings if your applications have flexible start and end times.
* Dedicated Hosts - Physical EC2 server dedicated for your use. Dedicated Hosts can help you reduce costs by allowing you to use your existing server-bound software licences.

# On Demand
* Perfect for users that want the low cost and flexibility of Amazon EC2 without any up-front payment or long term commitment
* Applications with short term, spiky or unpredictable workloads that cannot be interrupted
* Applications being developed or tested on Amazon EC2 for the first time

# Reserved Instances
* Applications with steady state or predictable usage
* Applications that require reserved capacity
* Users can make up-front payments to reduce their total computing costs even further
    * Standard RIs (Up to 75% off on demand)
    * Convertible RIs (Up to 54% off on demand) feature the capability to change the attributes of the RI as long as the exchange results in the creation of reserved instances of equal or greater value
    * Scheduled RIs are available to launch within the time window you reserve. This option allows you to match your capacity reservation to a predictable recurring schedule that only requires a fraction of a day a week or a month.

# Spot Instances
* Applications that have flexible start and end times
* Applications that are only feasible at very low comput prices

# Dedicated Hosts
* Useful for regulatory requirements that may not support multitenant virtualization
*  Great for licensing which does not support multi-tenancy or cloud deployments
* Can be purchased on Demand
* Can be purchased as a reservation 

# EC2 Instance Types
FIGHT DR MC PX

# What is EBS
Amazon EBS allows you to create storage volumes and attach them to Amazon EC2 instances. Once attached you can create a file system on top of these volumes.

# EBS Volume Types
* General Purpose SSD (GP2)
    * General Purpose, balances both price and performance
    * Ratio of 3 IOPS per GB with up to 10,000 IOPS and the ability to burst up to 3000 IOPS for extended periods of time for volumes
* Provisioned IOPS SSD (IO1)
    * Designed for I/O intensive applications such as large relational or NoSQL databases.
    * Use if you need more than 10,000 IOPS
    * Can provision up to 20,000 IOPS per volume
* Throughput Optimized HDD (ST1)
    * Big data
    * Data warehouse
    * Log processing
    * Cannot be a boot volume
* Cold HDD (SC1)
    * Lowest cost storage for infrequently accessed workloads
    * File Server
    * Cannot be a boot volume
* Magnetic (Standard)
    * Lowest cost per gigabyte of all EBS volume types. 
    * Legacy, is going away
    * Ideal for infrequently accessed data.

# EC2 Exam Tips
* On Demand - allows you to pay a fixed rate by the hour (or by the second) with no commitment.
* Reserved - provides you with a capacity reservation, and offer a significatn discount on the hourly charge for an instance. 1 Year or 3 Year Terms.
* Spot - enables you to bid whatever price you want for instance capacity, providing for even greater savings if your applications have flexible start and end times
* Dedicated Hosts - Physical EC2 server dedicated for your use. Dedicated Hosts can help you reduce costs by allowing you to use your existing server-bound software licenses.

If a Spot instance is terminated by Amazon EC2, you will not be charged for a partial hour of usage. However, if you terminate the instance yourself, you will be charged for the complete hour in which the instance ran.

FIGHT DR MC PX

SSD  
    * General Purpose SSD - balances price and performance for a wide variety of workloads  
    * Provisioned IOPS SSD - Higest performance SSD volume for mission critical low latency or high throughput workloads.

Magnetic  
    * Throughput Optimized HDD - Low cost HDD volume designed for frequently accessed, throughput-intensive workloads  
    * Cold HDD - Lowest cost HDD volume designed for less frequently accessed workloads  
    * Magnetic - Previous Generation. Can be a boot volume